Again a lot of functionality was added over the last lectures,
let's now add a side drawer, so some side menu we can use.
You can again dive into the official documentation to learn more,
it's on the top level API and you register such a side drawer directly when you start a tab or
single screen app,
so there you got this drawer option you can set to register a drawer that comes in from the left or
right,
there are a couple of other steps involved though and I will show you how that works.
First of all before we can start, we need a screen that acts as our drawer,
so that is the screen that comes out from the left or the right.
So I'll add it here and let's simply name it side drawer because that's what it is,
here's our SideDrawer.js file.
So the side drawer now simply is a normal react component, can be a functional one, a functional component
or a class based one,
I'm going to go for the class-based one as pretty much for all my screens,
so let me import this from react and then I get my class and I'll name it side drawer,
you can name it whatever you want.
It extends my component
and in there as always we have our render method and so on,
so it's just a normal react component in the end,
we return some jsx and of course we export this side drawer as the default of this file.
Then I'm going to import some components from react native to actually build something here
and for now, let's simply add a view here
where we output some text side drawer
maybe, we can fine tune this later. For that,
I need to import these two components so I'll
import a view and a text and this is our side drawer component,
all we need for now. Now to load it,
I go to start main tabs because as I just showed you in the documentation, you register your side drawer
there.
Well actually, you first of all go to app.js because you need to register it as a screen,
this can be a screen with or without redux, whatever you need,
I'll register it without because I don't need it right now,
so awesome places and I'll just name it side drawer,
you can name it side drawer screen if you want.
I need to import it in this file therefore to be able to register it,
so let's import side drawer from
source screens,
not that but side drawer
and there, the side drawer file
and in our generator function, we simply return the side drawer
now. Now with it registered as a screen, now we can use it in our start main tabs file because there, where
we have this object configuring our tab based app, we now don't just pass our tabs but after that, I will
now also set up the drawer configuration which is a javascript object and you can learn more about this
in the react native navigation documentation of course
and there you can specify either left or right
and now I want to get a drawer from the left. And now we can configure this left drawer here, it's another
javascript object and we have to set a screen,
so here it's awesome-places.SideDrawer,
so that identifier you chose here.
With that, you registered a side drawer,
now if you save all files and you reload your app and you login, do you see a side drawer here? Well
you can actually see it if you manually slide in from the left, you don't have a toggle button up here
and you see that the side drawer text is below the status bar
but technically it's here. Now on Android let's also reload there, login,
there this slide part
doesn't really work
so there we would need to add a menu button and it would be nice to have one on iOS too because otherwise
it's totally random
if a user finds out that we have a side menu or not.
So this menu button is not added automatically,
instead we have to add it and we have to add it for each tab screen,
so here when we set up our tabs, here is where we also can register buttons that should show up in
the navigation bar
and that's not limited to the menu button, so this button which opens the drawer
by the way. Any buttons you want to have up here like a plus button to add a new item,
you would register it here.
So let's first of all fetch a new icon for this, so I'll get an image source and the icon i want
is ios-menu,
pick size
30 here too and then for the first tab,
I'll add a new option, new configuration which is navigator button, so buttons which should be added
to the nav bar.
It's a javascript object and there you can add buttons on the left and right and you can always learn
more about this
as I said in the documentation, there if you inspect the tab set up, you will find the navigator buttons
configuration and you can find the details for that configuration a little bit further down.
So here we can set up left buttons which is an array of all the buttons we want to add and each button
is a javascript object now where you can set an icon, there it's sources with index too now because
it's my third icon,
the icon coming from this promise and maybe a title menu which optionally is displayed.
Now let me copy this because I want to use the same set up on the second tab,
it by default doesn't add it to all the tabs because maybe you don't want to use such a button on one
of the pages,
maybe the side menu should only be available in one tab,
that's why you have to add it to every tab you want to use it,
it doesn't make any assumptions about this.
Now if you save that file and you reload your app and login, now you have this button but it doesn't
do anything, on Android
it even crashes now.
We'll take care about the crash later
but it's also a pity that it doesn't open the drawer when we click it on iOS.
The reason for this is that now we added a button but remember that I said you could add any buttons
you want,
how would react native navigation
know that this button should toggle the side drawer?
It might be logical for you but you could have added any button, a button which adds a new place which
should fetches the user location, it
could be anything.
So we have to manually wire this button up to our side drawer and
we do this in our screens we're loading,
so in the share place screen and in the find place screen. Let's start with share place,
how do we hook this up?
We need to listen to some navigator events. Let's learn how this works in the next lecture because that's
an interesting part on its own.